Ramin: D2D uses core voltage since it's on package, don't want to create a separate supply voltage. Not treated as I/O.

Millind: Why wouldn't you want to go to as low a VDD as possible?. 

Ramin: Still aiming to avoid a requirement for a separate VDD for on-package I/O.

Millind: For interoperation, I/O voltage has to be fixed. 

Ahmad: Going forward, core voltage is expected to be lower. Are dealing with a lot of different core voltages optimized for the logic. Matching I/O to core may cause problems. All of these parts are expected to have DDR output.

Ramin: Cannot go to 0.4V for BoW terminated. Separate VDD for BoW Basic and Terminated?

Halil: Fix the swing, independent of the supply voltage. 

Millind: We really need to prove that LPDDR is the wrong choice. What problem do we solve by making the I/O voltage match the core voltage.

Rod: If we choose  a voltage - we may be pushing a core voltage on the whole die

Ahmad: If we make separate Vdd for BoW basic and Terminated/BiDi. Would we lose interoperability

Halil: Can be solved by adding independent power bumps. Is there space?

Kenneth: Voltages are trending lower. Why are we picking a higher voltage

Ahmad: 3nm is going to be a lower supply.

Bapi: Bear in mind the need to support heterogeneous integration. Wanted to support voltages as far back as 28nm

Millind: Does the I/O need to be tied to core. One core at 0.7 and one core at 1

Ramin: Core need not be tied to I/O. One of the sides will need an extra supply. Majority of the process nodes are
at 0.7 to 0.9. If the core is at 0.5, then it will require a separate voltage 

David: Define the transmit launch amplitude. How they get there is their problem. 

Ramin: BoW is single ended. Need a reference. Preferably capacitively decoupled. Cannot define a launch amplitude
without a reference. Could reference to gnd - requires current mode drivers that are not power efficient.

Prakash: General topology and swing needs to be defined. Could we go with terminate low. 

Ramin: Not good for power purposes. What are the ramifications of 0.4 or 0.5  Look at the trade-off across Basic,
TD, BiDi. Should we relax the compatibility requirements

Millind: If we want one range, what is the scope of that range? Within a range, we need one required voltage. 0.9
seems too high. Is such a wide range possible. 

Ahmad: BoW interface will need the core side supply. BoW interface will always end up with two voltages.

Ramin: Level shifters need not be under the bumps. Can be somewhere else

Ahmad: Level shifters need to be a part of the BoW IP. Implies multiple supply voltages.

Ramin: Could be a separate "level-shifter" layer between chip and i/f. This could be done without a separate
bump.

Kenneth: Slide walk through

Ramin: BoW does not say 0.9. Supply voltage is at 0.7-0.9. Not forced to be core voltage. 

Prakash: Don't need to be compatible. But leverage what's out there. And recharacterize what's out there.

Ramin: Let's focus on what's best for D2D. Should not be constrained by existing power supplies. 

Ahmad: As a user want to leverage existing supplies. We want IP providers to minimize the effort. Usability
needs to be a constraint. 

Ramin: Terminated and bidi have to be implemented in current mode. Not power efficient.

Someone: There exist low power current mode drivers.

Bapi: Really talking about a band shift. Lowest voltage could be non terminated. Lots of commonality.
When terminated interoperates with unterminated - choose 0.7

Ahmad: Support the compatibility requirement. 

Possible point of convergence: Lower midpoint range, 

Shahab: Let's come in with something that DDR and HBM cannot cover. 

Ramin: Really focus on what's good for D2D. Why constrain it with existing PHYs. 

Proposal 1: Lowering the midpoint while still overlapping with the previous range
Proposal 2: Heavy emphasis on leveraging existing PHY: (a) prove that it's needed - Ramin; 
(b) prove that it's not needed - Millind/Kenneth